# ARTS WEEK20181105

### Algorithm
  A couple weeks ago, I did the first algorithm at leetcode, its about *two sum* problem which has two solutions, one is normally iteration in a nested loop whose time complexity is O(n^2), and the other is a little trick whose time complexity is only O(n) complex, but with a extra O(n) space complexity.
  
  On this week I meet another algorithm which is very similar to this one, but with a little more complicated. 
  
> There is a integer number `S` and an integer array `arr`. Find if there are some numbers which is summed up to equal `S`, the return value are `true` for yes, and `false` for no. 

Because there is no number limit for summing, which is different to the leetcode one that limit exactly two number. And make this algorithm is more complicated.

The solution is DP, and has two ways. One is using recursion which includes a lot of overlaped computing, another is using a array to keep the intermediate values which can be reused in the consective iterative compute. Here is the no-recursion one by Python.

```
S = 10
arr = [4, 1, 9, 3, 5, 7]
def exist_number(arr, S):
    pass
```

### Review

Recently I saw an article named "[How does DHCP works](https://www.benburwell.com/posts/how-does-dhcp-work/)", and the first thoughts poped in my head is that "I already knew DHCP, which is used to assign ip address to the devices which are firstly joined in a network". But when refer to the details, it became a little unclear. So I decided to read a bit and find if there is something I ignore. 

DHCP is very simple compared to other protocols, it contains four phases:

* client's broadcast request
* DHCP server's offer ( or response )
* client's request ( which is just like the first phase, except with an offered ip address in the package )
* DHCP server's acknowledgement. ( which is just like the second response )

```request -> reponse -> request -> response```

the twice (request and response) couple is very similar. 

We assume that the DHCP server IP is 192.168.1.1, and the new device will be assigned to 192.168.1.2

**first request**  

```
0.0.0.0:68 -> 255.255.255.255:67

request package contains information:
* submask
* classless static route
* router
* DNS server
* domain name
* proxy autodiscovery
* LDAP server
* NetBIOS nameserve
* NetBIOS node type
```

**offer**

```
192.168.1.1:67 -> 192.168.1.2:68

offer package contains the following information:
* lease time
* renew time
* rebind time
* netmask
* router server
* DNS server
* Domain Name
```

**second request**

Compare to the first request, this is merely replace the `client ip` segment of the request package from `0` to the `offered ip`.

**acknowledgement**

The server reiterates the correct parameters it provided in the Offer, including the rebinding and renewal periods, netmask, etc.


**Question 1: Why does it need twice request->response circle?**  
It needs the ackknowledgement process to guarantee the correctness.

**Question 2: What is different between renewal and rebind?**  
renew is for the current DHCP server to which the client now register itself. rebind will discover a new DHCP server using broadcast.

**Question 3: Why does it have to use UDP, but not TCP**  
Because when the client does not know IP of the server and itself yet, it should use broadcast to discovery. However, TCP protocal can not do broadcast because it needs exact IP pair: Client IP and Server IP

**Question 4: What is the different between DHCP and BOOTP**  
There is an artical summarizes it:  [DHCP vs BOOP](http://www.differencebetween.net/technology/difference-between-dhcp-and-bootp/)

### Tip


    


### Share

