# ARTS WEEK20181029

### Algorithm
   The 3rd leetcode algorithm usering sliding window.
   
   Problem Description:  
   Given a string, find the length of the longest substring without repeating characters.
   
```
Input: "abcabcbb"
Output: 3 
Explanation: The answer is "abc", with the length of 3.
```

   Long ago there is an requirement to do the rate limitation of the incoming HTTP request from the clients, for example 100r/s which can be satisfied by sliding window which remind me to solve this problem. Here is the leetcode problem solution using Python:
   
 ```
 def longest_sub_string(str):
 	i = 0
 	j = 0
 	res = 0
 	string_length = len(str)
 	s = set()
 	while i < string_length and j < string_length:
 		if not s[str[j]]:
 			s.add(str[j])
 			res = max(res, len(s))
 			j += 1
 		else:
 			s.remove(str[i])
 			i += 1
 	return res
 ```
  
### Review
  There is an English article about phase of TLS handshake, and I think its illustration is great, and we can see the meaning of every phase and even every byte by an interaction way. I really be happy if it helps. Thanks for the autor of this article.
  
  the article original text is at
  [The Illustrated TLS Connection](https://tls.ulfheim.net/)
  
### Tips
  This week a friend come to ask a question about rsync.  here is the situation. they are using rsync for the real-time increment transmission. but they find the file's inode in the destination directory is changing all the time, which does not meet their needs.  because their current program judging file is old or new by the inode number, and they don't want to change the program.

  So I checked the principle underneath rsync transfer. And Wrote a article below which can be found at the `Share` part below,  [What does rsync do at background when transfering a file](https://github.com/herozgx/arts/blob/master/WEEK20181030/rsync.md).

  Finnally, I find an option of rsync which can meet their needs, and the problem is solved.  the option is `--inplace`, which will not using the temp file overwrite the current file.
  
### Share
  [What does rsync do at background when transfering a file](https://github.com/herozgx/arts/blob/master/WEEK20181029/rsync.md)

